Maple Brown Butter Pumpkin Cookies

Statistics:
Prep - 35 min
Cook - 15 min
Ready in 50 min
Makes 12 Servings


Ingredients:
1 cup (220 g) unsalted butter
1-½ cups (280 g) dark brown sugar, packed
1 egg yolk
3 Tbsp pure maple syrup
1 tsp vanilla extract
⅓ cup (80 g) pumpkin puree
2-¼ cups (280 g) all purpose flour
1 tsp baking soda
½ tsp baking powder
½ tsp salt
1-½ tsp pumpkin pie spice
½ tsp cinnamon
2 Tbsp brown sugar
2 Tbsp granulated sugar
1 tsp cinnamon


Directions:
First, brown the butter. Melt 1 cup of butter over medium heat, continuing to stir until it reaches a rich amber color.
Pour the butter into a measuring glass to ensure you have the right amount, making sure to scrape the bottom of the pot to get all of the brown bits as well. It should be a bit short of 1 cup. Place in the refrigerator to chill for about 20 minutes. Don’t let it solidify.
Preheat the oven to 350F and line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and spices. Set aside.
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the brown sugar and cooled brown butter. It should look like clumpy wet sand.
Whisk in the egg yolk, maple syrup, vanilla, and pumpkin until smooth.
Add in all of the dry ingredients and use a rubber spatula to fold into the batter.
Off to the side, mix together the coating ingredients in a small dish.
Use a large cookie scoop (2 oz) or ¼ measuring cup and scoop out the dough. Drop into the cinnamon sugar mixture and toss to coat. The dough will be very soft but not sticky.
Place onto the baking sheet, spaced about 3 inches apart from each other. You should be able to bake 5-6 cookies at a time. Leave the rest of the dough out at room temperature.
Bake for 12-15 minutes or until the edges are darkened and the center looks puffed and slightly underdone.
Allow them to rest on the baking sheet for a couple minutes, then transfer to a cooling rack. Continue to bake the rest of the cookie dough.
Allow the cookies to cool, then dig in!
